also of the W eimar A.cadenl.yofFineArt(Gross­
herzogZiche Hochsclzule fur Bildende Kunst), in 
the spring of 1919. As a first step towards the 
realization of a much wider plan in V\'hich rny 
primary aim was that the principle of training 
the individual's natural capacities to grasp life 
as a whole, a single cosmic entity, should form 
the basis of instruction throughout the school 
instead of in only one or two arbitrarily (special­
ized' classes I amalgamated these institutions 
into a Hochschulefur Gestaltung, or High School 
for D esign , under the name of Das Staatliche 
Bauhaus Weimar. 
In carrying out this schem e I tried to solve 
the ticklish problem of combining imaginative 
design and technical proficiency. That meant 
finding a new and hitherto non-existent type of 
collaborator who could be moulded into being 
equally proficient in both. As a safeguard against 
any recrudescence of the old dilettante handi­
craft spirit I made every pupil (including the 
architectural students) bind himself to con1plete 
his full legal term of apprenticeship in a formal 
letter of engagem ent registered with the local 
trades council. I insisted on m anual instruction, 
not as an end in itself, or with any idea of turn-
52 